= MethodFinder

This project was originally inspired by Smalltalk's Method Finder, but additonal features were added over time.

== Requirements

Ruby 1.9.3+ (also works with Rubinius in 1.9 mode). Versions of <tt>MethodFinder</tt> up to 1.2.5 will also work with Ruby 1.8.7.

== Usage

=== MethodFinder.find

Provided with a receiver, the desired result and possibly some arguments, <tt>MethodFinder.find</tt> will list all methods that produce the given result when called on the receiver with the provided arguments.

    MethodFinder.find(10, 1, 3)
    #=> ["Fixnum#%", "Fixnum#<=>", "Fixnum#>>", "Fixnum#[]", "Integer#gcd", "Fixnum#modulo", "Numeric#remainder"]
    MethodFinder.find("abc","ABC")
    #=> ["String#swapcase", "String#swapcase!", "String#upcase", "String#upcase!"]
    MethodFinder.find(10, 100, 2)
    #=> ["Fixnum#**"]
    MethodFinder.find(['a','b','c'], ['A','B','C']) { |x| x.upcase }
    #=> ["Array#collect", "Array#collect!", "Enumerable#collect_concat", "Enumerable#flat_map", "Array#map", "Array#map!"]

=== Object#find_method

This gem also adds <tt>Object#find_method</tt>, which besides offering an alternative interface to pretty much the same functionality as <tt>MethodFinder.find</tt>, also allows you to test for state other than the return value of the method.

    %w[a b c].find_method { |a| a.unknown(1) ; a == %w[a c] }
    #=> ["Array#delete_at", "Array#slice!"]
    10.find_method { |n| n.unknown(3) == 1 }
    #=> ["Fixnum#%", "Fixnum#<=>", "Fixnum#>>", "Fixnum#[]", "Integer#gcd", "Fixnum#modulo", "Numeric#remainder"]

Inside <tt>find_method</tt>'s block, the receiver is available as block argument and the special method <tt>unknown</tt> is used as a placeholder for the desired method.

You can also call <tt>find_method</tt> without passing a block. This is the same as calling <tt>MethodFinder.find</tt>.

    10.find_method(1,3)
    #=> ["Fixnum#%", "Fixnum#<=>", "Fixnum#>>", "Fixnum#[]", "Integer#gcd", "Fixnum#modulo", "Numeric#remainder"]

==== Blacklists

You can exclude methods from being tried by editing the hashes <tt>MethodFinder::INSTANCE_METHOD_BLACKLIST</tt> and <tt>MethodFinder::CLASS_METHOD_BLACKLIST</tt>. Both use the class/module as key and an array of method names as values (note that class, module and method names have to be symbols).

For example, to blacklist the instance method <tt>shutdown</tt> of <tt>Object</tt>, you would do

    MethodFinder::INSTANCE_METHOD_BLACKLIST[:Object] << :shutdown

This might come in handy when using <tt>MethodFinder</tt> together with other gems as such as <tt>interactive_editor</tt>.

=== MethodFinder.find_classes_and_modules

A simple method to return all currently defined modules and classes.

    MethodFinder.find_classes_and_modules
    #=> [ArgumentError, Array, BasicObject, Bignum ... ZeroDivisionError]

=== MethodFinder.find_in_class_or_module

Searches for a given name within a class. The first parameter can either be a class object, a symbol or a string whereas the optional second parameter can be a string or a regular expression:

    MethodFinder.find_in_class_or_module('Array', 'shuff')
    #=> [:shuffle, :shuffle!]
    MethodFinder.find_in_class_or_module(Float, /^to/)
    #=> [:to_f, :to_i, :to_int, :to_r, :to_s]

If the second parameter is omitted, all methods of the class or module will be returned.

    MethodFinder.find_in_class_or_module(Math)
    #=> [:acos, :acosh, :asin ... :tanh]

== Warning

Common sense not included!

While I never had any problems with this, it's still better to be safe than sorry, so use this with caution and maybe not on production data.

I initially wrote this for the students of the core Ruby course on {RubyLearning}[http://rubylearning.org], so Rails is not of interestto me (not saying it doesn't work there, just that I test in plain IRB/Pry and not with the Rails console.

== Thanks

* Matthew Lucas for {first packaging this as a gem}[https://github.com/citizen428/methodfinder/pull/1].
* Ryan Bates for {suggesting}[https://github.com/citizen428/methodfinder/issues/closed#issue/3] what eventually became <tt>Object#find_method</tt>.
* Jan Lelis for {implementing blacklists}[https://github.com/citizen428/methodfinder/issues/closed#issue/4].
* Brian Morearty for pointing out an {incompatibility with Ruby 1.8.7}[https://github.com/citizen428/methodfinder/pull/5] and adding the {blockless version}[https://github.com/citizen428/methodfinder/pull/6] of <tt>Object#find_method</tt>.
* Stefan Kanev for {adding Pry support}[https://github.com/citizen428/methodfinder/pull/7].

== License

Copyright (c) 2011 Michael Kohl

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
